index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Home
---

### Hello and Welcome!

```rust
// Define "nixpulvis" in Latin.
let nix = snow;
let pulvis = powder || dust;
```

Welcome to my slice of the internet. If you'd like to find me elsewhere, here
are some more places to look:

- 202.701.4368
- <mailto:nathan@nixpulvis.com>
- [GitHub](https://github.com/nixpulvis)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/nixpulvis)

I'm a *hacker*, meaning I like to make things (and break things). I'm also a
*tinker*, by a more literal definition -- I like to get my hands dirty. I have
a passion for Programming Languages (PL) and embedded systems. You'll likely
find me writing Rust or soldering something.

If you would like to read more of my [rambling](/ramblings) or about a
[project](/projects) I've done, please do!

I’m from Colorado, went to school in Boston, moved to Silicon Valley, then back
to Colorado to be a ski bum for a bit, now I'm working at Forward Financing in
Boston.

I graduated from Northeastern University with a Bachelor's in Computer and
Information Science. I'm planning on going back to school with a focus on PL
[soon™](https://gaming.stackexchange.com/questions/23112/where-did-soon-originate).

You can view my [resume](/resume.pdf) for more information.

Commit message:

A door is a metaphor. Knock, bust, or find a key.
My new roommate (name still unknown) who moved in yesterday, upon coming
home tonight locked the door behind him on the way in. This speaks
volumes of his personality and/or habits, given that we live on the 6th
floor of a private apartment building with a keyfob to get into the
front door, manned (or womanned in this case) by someone at the front
desk.

His return overlapped with my ~2 minute journey to take my laundry out
of the dryer. Of course I don't have my keys... So now I'm locked out.
This isn't the first time fate has spun this mishap either, however last
time it was my roommate Ashley leaving, and I managed to get to her
before she left the building.

The *fucked up* part is what happened next. I proceed to knock on the
front door many times, hoping he had in fact returned home. I even went
so far as to go up to his window (a floor above) and knock on the glass
directly. Somehow it didn't occur to him that he should go check the
door however, despite admitting he had heard the knocks and taps. He's
not a mean person I'm sure, and he seems genuinely sorry for my
inconvenience. Something about strangers, or the possibility of
strangers is too much to be bothered with for some people I suppose.

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Home
---

### Hello and Welcome!

```rust
// Define "nixpulvis" in Latin.
let nix = snow;
let pulvis = powder || dust;
```

Welcome to my slice of the internet. If you'd like to find me elsewhere, here
are some more places to look:

- 202.701.4368
- <mailto:nathan@nixpulvis.com>
- [GitHub](https://github.com/nixpulvis)
- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/nixpulvis)

I'm a *hacker*, meaning I prefer an unlocked door. I'm also a *tinker*, by a
more literal definition -- I like to dirty my hands building things. I have a
passion for programming languages (PL) and embedded systems. You'll likely find
me writing Rust or soldering something.

If you would like to read more of my [rambling](/ramblings) or about a
[project](/projects) I've done, please do!

I’m from Colorado, went to school in Boston, moved to Silicon Valley, then back
to Colorado to be a ski bum for a bit, now I'm working at Forward Financing in
Boston.

I graduated from Northeastern University with a Bachelor's in Computer and
Information Science. I'm planning on going back to school with a focus on PL
[soon™](https://gaming.stackexchange.com/questions/23112/where-did-soon-originate).

You can view my [resume](/resume.pdf) for more information.
