---
title: Achilles' Tent Notes &#35;14
layout: note
---

I went into the lab the other day... it's all torn down. I guess they're making
room for a new batch of students or RAs or something finally. I had to retrieve
my old workstation and a few other desk items. It's been years since I was
working on the project and I had almost forgotten about some of these crazy
ideas, but underneath all the confused notes and half-baked implementations, I
still feel like we were working on something with a bit of merit. So it pains
me that I have nothing more than countless memories of discussions with
colleagues, random notes, a few dead repositories, and a year of research
experience on my CV to show for it all. I guess I shouldn't complain though.
This is a better end for research than trying to keep alive something which
insists on dying. In the end, I was spinning my wheels trying to make too many
things work together at the same time. Had I taken the time to distil a few
ideas and focus on them, perhaps it would have been more successful. But then
there were the requirements to consider, and looming evaluations of our
satisfaction of said requirements. It was all seemingly hopeless at the end,
then *poof* COVID-19 really killed everything. Who knows, maybe down the road
some breath will be given to a new life of something similar and exciting?

Anyway, I just wanted to leave a note here concluding this line of research
for now. The tent was pitched and now it is collapsed and I suppose I'm packing
it up as we speak.
