---
layout: default
style: /css/MTk3ODkK.css
---

As the political environment starts to tip the Richter scale, I
find we're just scratching the surface. We'd love to measure the
struggle of the common man, or any animal for that matter; prove
the meaning in all the hardships and struggles we face. A Mohs
scale, if you will, for the hardness of a _person_.  Instead of
measuring the resistance to scratches a mineral can withstand, a
measure for the amount one is torn away by adversarial
interaction.

We all know how it goes... Try convincing a blind man of the
beauty a sunset holds.

It takes nuance, empathy and understanding. Both parties must
make an effort to communicate. Instead we impose our beliefs on
others relentlessly. Be it nihilistic compliance, inspired
rebellion, insidious hatred, or anything else, we can't help but
leak onto each other. An attempt to erode the foundations of our
enemies. So we all build levees, and it's the hardest that last
the longest.

Hardness gets portrayed as a very masculine concept. It's
attached to physical strength, sweat, and blood. But that's not
really it at all.  Hardness is a stoic resolve. It's the
confidence to argue with someone you don't agree with, and the
humility to admit when you're wrong.  It's the ability to simply
remain in the face of adversity. While it may manifest as
physical strength, often the aspect of hardness is the Ego
itself.

Culture binds these relationships together like gravity to
planets.  Unlike gravity however, our culture(s) makes baseless
choices in fashion all too often, and are always changing. We
live in a fractured world, in the aftermath of a cultural
earthquake. Each day a new aftershock.

All this pressure builds diamonds, the hardest gems. Too hard;
they hold more power than they ever should, bloodied and soaked
in the tears of countless detractors. Meanwhile the sandstone
dissolves quickly into sand. Sand that embeds itself into every
nook and cranny, imposing a distinctive friction on everything. A
malignant force, that leaves a mark.

But together the sand can be molded into castles, or melted into
windows, or even engineered into computers. And it feels like
there's more sand caught between my toes after a day at the beach
than diamonds on the entire earth.

Remember that.
