---
title: Death to an Android
layout: rambling
---

Well, it's been a confusing few months since I decided to go completely off
platform (well the Apple Platform anyway). I learned a lot, lost my cool many
times, and fundamentally remained just as jaded as before. My problems persist
across devices, across makes and models, across brands, and most of all, they
persist through time sporadically.

The issues aren't well distinguished, with
clear cut reproductions. Instead, my music cuts out or softens randomly. My
fingers fail to register on the touchscreen. Things still randomly connect and
disconnect. I have even less faith in the Google Play store than I do in
Apple's damn App Store. Developing Android apps is only a little bit better
than iOS apps. I still don't have root, nor is it really possible in a
reasonable manner.

Instead, I have all sorts of little Google problems. I get notifications,
banners, ads, and pop-ups all over the place, trying to help me discover new
things which only serve to distract me. I'm forced to relearn gestures which
are not configurable.

My messages have been stuck in green for way too long as well... the fact that
we haven't come up with SMS 2.0 by now is a testament to the complete failure
of modern technology. Nobody is around to force these companies to play nice
anymore it seems.

Anyway, I forget exactly what possessed me to decide upon the fate of my
Android but either way, I realized that I had basically never used the front
camera.  So, what would happen if I drilled it out. Here's where I fucked up
(though it was good fortune, because I'm happier back on iOS now I think)... I
drilled from the front. I figured that the layers of the phone's screen would
be basically empty directly over the camera. This turned out to be false, or at
least _something_ cracked (apart from just the top glass), because the screen
slowly died over the course of a few days. It was kind of fun to watch, but
also worrying. If I was smart I would have drill slowly from the back, just
until the camera took a fatal blow.

Phones hold far too much power these days, as we all know. We're getting to the
point you can't even pay for some things without them. I request that you all
reject this regardless of your technological religion. At least that way when
it comes time to kill another iPhone, I won't be too lost.

Until then, I'm going to do my best to enjoy what there is to enjoy in this mad
new world. At least until [Apple and the WHO decide I've listened to enough
music for the day](https://discussions.apple.com/thread/252113205).
