---
layout: default
style: /css/MTk3ODkK.css
---

I had another dream, I was again a camp councilor. This time
however, it was the first day.

Upon nervously returning to the same camp I attended as a
camper, I was greeted warmly by an old friend, who had stayed
all these years. "Lillypad!" he emoted, with a beckoning grin.
I rushed over to meet back up with my friend. Looking busy, he
asked if I was able to help him out on the sailboat for today's
voyage. I couldn't have been happier, or more willing.

All I needed was a life vest. All I needed was to run over to
the boat house and grab the first life vest I saw. So I ran,
and I looked for a vest. But none of the vests were quite
right. But, I had spied a perfect vest, laid out at the end of
the nearby dam's crest. It was out on a wooden dock which the
dam's caretaker would use to check the water, and ensure
nothing was stuck in the intake. I was fueled by confidence,
set on the perfect vest, and rushed by duty to an old friend.
So I ran out towards the dock. Surely the dam would be fine
without it's water checked for a day I thought. Surly, the
dam's caretaker would not drown without it. Why would a life
vest even be there in the first place?

While I had been walking down the dock to pick up the life
vest, my friend had been intrigued by my choice to venture out
on the dam. He startled me, as I turned to walk back. "Why must
you take this vest he asked?", and all I could say was,
"Because it fits right". Seemingly content with my answer, he
dove into the intake, and swam upstream.

The thought to walk back up the dock never even crossed my
mind, nor did the complexity of swimming upstream a flowing
intake fully clothed carrying a life vest. Nor, for that matter
did the choice of my friend to willingly swim upstream a dam's
intake seem odd. I simply followed suit, directly into the
current. After my first flailing stroke, I understood my
mistake. I was rushing toward the spillway; watching the
powerful swimmer ahead of me grow further and further.

Failing to breath, I awoke.
