I had another dream, I was again a camp councilor. This time however, it was
the first day.

Upon nervously returning to the same camp I attended as a camper, I was greeted
warmly by an old friend, who had stayed all these years. "Lillypad!" he emoted,
with a beckoning grin. I rushed over to meet back up with my friend. Looking
busy, he asked if I was able to help him out on the sailboat for today's
voyage. I couldn't have been happier, or more willing.

All I needed was a life vest. All I needed was to run over to the boat house
and grab the first life vest I saw. So I ran, and I looked for a vest. But none
of the vests were quite right. But, I had spied a perfect vest, laid out at the
end of the nearby dam's crest. It was out on a wooden dock which the dam's
caretaker would use to check the water, and ensure nothing was stuck in the
intake. I was fueled by confidence, set on the perfect vest, and rushed by duty
to an old friend. So I ran out towards the dock. Surely the dam would be fine
without it's water checked for a day I thought. Surly, the dam's caretaker
would not drown without it. Why would a life vest even be there in the first
place?

While I had been walking down the dock to pick up the life vest, my friend had
been intrigued by my choice to venture out on the dam. He startled me, as I
turned to walk back. "Why must you take this vest he asked?", and all I could
say was, "Because it fits right". Seemingly content with my answer, he dove
into the intake, and swam upstream.

The thought to walk back up the dock never even crossed my mind, nor did the
complexity of swimming upstream a flowing intake fully clothed carrying a life
vest. Nor, for that matter did the choice of my friend to willingly swim
upstream a dam's intake seem odd. I simply followed suit, directly into the
current. After my first flailing stroke, I understood my mistake. I was
rushing toward the spillway; watching the powerful swimmer ahead of me grow
further and further.

Failing to breath, I awoke.
